Yeah,
>> I was curious,
the word sync is the event, the event
that we're catching is sync, right?
That I think maybe what I was wondering
about when you alluded to this was,
that seems to be an event that gets fired
when a sync is successfully completed,
not when one is attempted and then-
>> Yeah.
>> Is that right?
>> Yeah,
you're complaining about the event name.
>> Yeah, well, yes, it's not quite
as specific as some of the others.
>> Yeah, it's not.
In this case, well,
also push, what does it say?
It's like push received, it's like push.
And even I think it's using push
as a noun, not even as a verb.
So that's an event,
it's kind of, what is that?
Well, we need to add some context to
the event name in the case of sync means,
hey, I have an unprocessed sync operation,
try now, try to sync now.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> That's kind of the event.
The event is for
us to try to sync the data and
fulfill that sync operation.
>> I see, so this data doesn't
get pushed to the client or
to the service worker with the sync event.
The sync event is saying,
server would like to sync and
then it's on us to reach out-
>> Exactly, yeah, in fact,
if you look here, I never said
what the sync operation means,
it's just a name, a label, the tag,
it's a tag name, that's all.
I didn't set if it's a request to the
server or maybe it's a sync to a database.
>> Typically we do this with
HTTP requests or we do that for
HTTP requests but it can do anything.
So maybe I wanna think something
in my index DV database.
I wanna parse something from index DV,
I wanna take something from a database and
create another database.
Instead of doing that in the main
context or in a worker attached
to the main worker,
I can ask the service worker to do that.
Remember, have in mind this
API is chromium only, for now.
We don't know if Safari, or WebKit
is going to implement that any time.
>> But conceptually,
you could implement sort of the same
thing with a push, or a website.
>> The problem with the push is
that the push will notify the user.
>> And this will not?
>> This will not and requires permission.
This will not.
So the only alternative to these is to
just send the message to a service worker.
In a standard,
like through a broadcast channel,
you send a message to a service
worker to actually do the sync.
The only thing that so
far is not going to do that in that case
is retry in two hours if
the connection is not working now.
>> Right, so it's on your application to
manage a connectivity issue instead of
allowing the browser-
>> It's up to you.
>> Queue them up.
>> For example,
some service worker frameworks
such as workbooks, they have a fallback.
So they have its own internal
algorithm to fall back to
other mechanisms in case
the sync API is not available.
>> I have a question.
I'm trying to connect to a use case.
I just wanted to check with you.
For example,
I have a browser that opens the UI, but
I deployed with newer
version in the server.
So unless I do a hard refresh,
I don't see the newer versions, the.
Is there a way that sync works like,
hey, I have a new version,
the server gets sort of the push
notification or something to see-
>> Well, you can do that with push, but
there is no direct relationship
between a push and a sync.
So if a push message is
waking up the service worker,
the service worker can take advantage
of that moment to update the data.
You don't need to wake up the service
worker and register a sync.
I mean, you can, but you're already
there so you can take advantage of
that moment and download the new data
at that moment when the push arrives.
Unless the connection isn't working so
in that case you can leave
a pending sync for the future.
So you can try again later, make sense?
>> Yeah.
Any question on, it's just that so there
is nothing else to talk about this API.
It's actually pretty simple.
That's background sync and
what we have in within
the service workers' dev tools,
a way to send a tag for testing.
Like, I don't know,
javascript rocks, or whatever.
What I need is the button sync.
So that is sending a sync operation.
So I'm getting in my service worker
an unknown sync with that Tag name.
What are the other ways that we have for
a server to unilaterally wake up your
service worker and interact with it?
>> From your server, you say?
>> Yeah, I mean, is that-
>> From the server there's only one way,
and that's with push
with user's permission.
If you want to wake up the service
worker from the server,
the only way you have is web push.
>> And does that require the user's
permission once or every time?
>> Once.
>> But
they get the notification every time.
>> But they can deny identification-
>> A notification every time.
>> Is a notification permission,
it's the same dialogue as notification.
So push notification is just
one big umbrella, okay?
But web sync API,
the client is the one, so
the web page client side is the one
registering the sync operation.
Yeah, you can trick these and
you can have a timer,
the registers sync every half an hour
just to see if there is something new but
yeah, it won't make any difference.